Far-Reaching Benefit of Beings, Extensive as the Sky
Visualization and Mantra Recitation of the Great Compassionate One
by Thangtong Gyalpo

For the visualization and recitation of Avalokiteśvara, begin by taking refuge and arousing
bodhicitta:
sangye chö dang tsok kyi chok nam la
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
changchub bardu dak ni kyab su chi
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
dak gi jin sok gyipé sönam kyi
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
Repeat three times.
Then, for the deity visualization:
dak sok khakhyab semchen gyi
For me and all sentient beings throughout the whole of space,
chitsuk pekar dawé teng
On the crowns of our heads, seated upon white lotus and moon
hrih lé pakchok chenrezik
Is a Hrīḥ, out of which noble Avalokiteśvara appears—
karsal özer ngaden tro
Brilliantly white and radiating five-coloured rays of light.
dzé dzum tukjé chen gyi zik
He has a captivating smile and gazes with eyes of compassion.
chak shyi dangpo taljar dzé
The first two of his four hands are clasped together,
ok nyi shel treng pekar nam
The lower two hold a crystal rosary and white lotus.
dar dang rinchen gyen gyi tré
He is adorned with silken garments and jewels,
ridak pakpé töyok sol
And an antelope pelt is draped over his shoulder.
öpakmé pé ugyen chen
Amitābha, 'Boundless Light', is his crown adornment.
shyab nyi dorjé kyiltrung shyuk
His two legs are in the seated, vajra posture,
drimé dawar gyab tenpa
And a stainless moon supports him at his back.
kyabné kündü ngowor gyur
He is the essence and embodiment of all sources of refuge.
Consider that you recite the following prayer together with all sentient beings, as if with
a single voice:
jowo kyön gyi ma gö kudok kar
Precious lord, your body white and unblemished,
dzok sangyé kyi u la gyen
Your crown adorned with the perfect buddhas,
tukjé chen gyi dro la zik
Your eyes of compassion gazing on all beings—
chenrezik la chaktsal lo
Avalokiteśvara, to you I pay homage!
Repeat this many times as possible.
Then recite the seven branches:1
1. Prostration
pakpa chenrezik wang dang
To the noble lord Avalokiteśvara and
chok chu dü sum shyukpa yi
And all the victors and their heirs,
gyalwa sé ché tamché la
Dwelling in all directions of the universe, through past, present and future,
künné dangwé chaktsal lo
Sincerely and enthusiastically I pay homage!
2. Offering
metok dukpö marmé dri
I make offerings of flowers, incense, lamps, fragrant scents,
shyalzé rolmo lasokpa
And food, and music, and the like —
ngöjor yi kyi trul né bul
Both physical and imaginary, created by the mind.
pakpé tsok kyi shyé su sol
Assembly of Noble Ones, please accept them all!
3. Confession
tokma mé né danté bar
All my negative deeds throughout beginningless time until today,
mi gé chu dang tsammé nga
The ten non-virtues and the five with immediate reckoning —
sem ni nyönmong wang gyurpé
Sprung from this mind that is driven by destructive emotions,
dikpa tamché shakpar gyi
I confess them all, each and every one.
4. Rejoicing
nyentö ranggyal changchub sem
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice in all the merits
soso kyewo lasokpé
Of śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas, bodhisattvas,
dü sum gewa chi sakpé
And every living being,
sönam la ni dak yi rang
Throughout the three times.
5. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma
semchen nam kyi sampa dang
I implore you: according to the temperament
lo yi jedrak jitawar
And mental capacity of sentient beings,
ché chung tün mong tekpa yi
Please turn the wheel of Dharma
chö kyi khorlo kor du sol
Of all the vehicles — lesser, greater, and general.
6. Requesting the Buddhas Not to Enter Nirvāṇa
khorwa jisi matong bar
Until saṃsāra has been completely emptied,
nya ngen mi da tukjé yi
I beseech you: do not pass into nirvāṇa,
dukngal gyatso jingwa yi
But look upon us with your boundless compassion,
semchen nam la zik su sol
As we flounder in this ocean of suffering.
7. Dedication
dak gi sönam chi sakpa
May whatever virtue I have amassed
tamché changchub gyur gyur né
Become the cause of enlightenment for all;
ringpor mi tok drowa yi
May I quickly, without delay or deferment,
drenpé pal du dak gyur chik
Become an excellent guide to all beings.
Should you wish, you may recite here the prayer to Avalokiteśvara that was the personal practice
of the bhikṣu Padma Karpo:
solwa deb so lama chenrezik
To you I pray, guru Avalokiteśvara.
solwa deb so yidam chenrezik
To you I pray, yidam Avalokiteśvara.
solwa deb so pakchok chenrezik
To you I pray, sublime noble Avalokiteśvara.
solwa deb so kyab gön chenrezik
To you I pray, lord of refuge Avalokiteśvara.
solwa deb so jam gön chenrezik
To you I pray, loving protector Avalokiteśvara.
tukjé zung shik gyalwa tukjé chen
Hold me in your compassion, caring and victorious one.
tamé khorwar drangmé khyam gyur ching
For us beings who wander endlessly throughout saṃsāra
zömé dukngal nyongwé drowa la
And are subjected to intolerable pain and suffering,
gönpo khyé lé kyab shyen ma chi so
Protector, we have no other refuge but you.
namkhyen sangye tobpar jingyi lob
Inspire us to attain omniscience and awakening.
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
shyedang wang gi nyalwar kyé gyur té
Beings who are overcome with hatred take birth in the hells,
tsadrang dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
Where they suffer the torments of intense heat and cold:
lha chok khyé kyi drung du kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in your presence, O supreme of deities!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
serné wang gi yidak né su kyé
Beings who are overcome with miserliness take birth in the preta realm,
trekom dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
Where they suffer the torments of intense hunger and thirst:
shying chok potala ru kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in your supreme Potala pureland!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
timuk wang gi düdror kyé gyur té
Beings who are overcome with folly take birth as animals,
lenkuk dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
And experience the misery of verbal incapacity and confusion:
gönpo khyé kyi drung du kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in your presence, O protector!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
döchak wang gi mi yi né su kyé
Beings who are overcome with passionate desire take birth in the human realm,
drel pong dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
Where they suffer the torments of intense deprivation:
shying chok dewachen du kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in the supreme pureland, Sukhāvatī!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
trakdok wang gi lhamin né su kyé
Beings who are overcome with jealousy take birth in the asura realm,
tabtsö dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
Where they suffer the torments of conflict and dispute:
po ta la yi shying du kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in the Potala pureland!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
ngagyal wang gi lha yi né su kyé
Beings who are overcome with pride take birth in the deva realm,
po tung dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
Where they suffer the torments of transmigration and fall:
po ta la yi shying du kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in the Potala pureland!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
dak ni kyé shying kyewa tamché du
May I, in this and all my future lives,
chenrezik dang dzepa tsungpa yi
Through activity like that of Avalokiteśvara,
ma dak shying gi dro nam drolwa dang
Liberate the beings of impure realms,
sung chok yik druk chok chur gyepar shok
And transmit the supreme speech of the six syllables throughout the ten directions!
pakchok khyé la solwa tabpé tü
Through the force of invoking you, the supremely noble,
dak gi duljar gyurpé drowa nam
May all those whom I must discipline and guide,
lé dré lhurlen gewé lé la tsön
Take interest in cause and effect, strive to act virtuously,
drowé döndu chö dang denpa shok
And come to possess the qualities that may benefit all.
Continue with:
detar tsechik soltab pé
Through praying single-pointedly in this way,
pakpé ku lé özer trö
Rays of light stream forth from the Noble One's form,
ma dak lenang trulshé jang
And purify impure karmic perception and delusion.
chinö dewachen gyi shying
The outer environment becomes the blissful paradise, Sukhāvatī,
nangchü kyendrö lü ngak sem
And beings within it transform physically, vocally and mentally
chenrezik wang ku sung tuk
To take on Avalokiteśvara's enlightened body, speech and mind,
nang drak riktong yermé gyur
And appearance, sound and awareness become inseparable from emptiness.
While meditating on this, recite the mantra:
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
Recite this as many times as possible.
Finally, settle evenly in your own essential nature, beyond any thought of the three conceptual
spheres (subject, object and activity).
dakshyen lü nang pakpé ku
I and others appear as the Noble One's enlightened form.
dra drak yigé drukpé yang
All sounds take on the melody of the six-syllable mantra,
dren tok yeshe chenpö long
And all thoughts are the expanse of great primordial wisdom.
gewa di yi nyurdu dak
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
chenrezik wang drub gyur né
Attain the realization of Avalokiteśvara, and thereby
drowa chik kyang malüpa
Every single sentient being
dé yi sa la göpar shok
Reach his state of perfection too.

This visualization and recitation of the Great Compassionate One, The Far-Reaching Benefit of
All, Extensive as the Sky, is the blessed speech of the great adept Thangtong Gyalpo. Sarva
Maṅgalam.

ditar gomdé gyipé sönam kyi
Through the merit of practising this visualization and recitation of mantra,
dak dang dak la drel tok drowa kün
May I and all those with whom I am connected,
mi tsang lü di borwar gyur ma tak
Be reborn miraculously in the blissful paradise of Sukhāvatī
dewachen du dzü té kyewar shok
The very moment we leave these impure bodies behind.
kyé ma tak tu sa chu rab drö né
And as soon as we are born there may we fully traverse the ten stages,
trulpé chok chur shyendön jepar shok
And send out emanations to act for others' welfare throughout the ten directions.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2020. (Seven-branch offering adapted from a translation by Stefan
Mang).
↑ What follows is adapted from the famous Seven-Branch Offering to Tārā attributed to Bhikṣuṇī
Lakṣmī (Gelongma Palmo).