Prayer of Truthful Words to Pacify the Fear of War
by Thangtong Gyalpo

om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ

jamchen gyalwa pakchok chenrezik
Victorious Maitreya, sublime and noble Avalokiteśvara,
trogyal tamdrin jetsün drolma sok
Ferocious king Hayagrīva, Jetsün Tārā, and the rest –
tsen tsam töpé jikpa kün selwé
Buddhas, the mere sound of whose names dispels all fear;
kyabné tukjé daknyi gong su sol
Compassionate sources of refuge, pray grant me heed.

tsöden nyikma nga dö semchen nam
In this time when individuals experience an oceanic surge
lé ngen trakdok tso chen dolwa lé
Of negative karma and jealousy – the age of fivefold decadence and strife –
tabtsö dukngal drakpö narwa na
As intense suffering, fighting and quarrelling oppress us,
yeshe tukjé shyuk kyi kempar dzö
Pray burn it all in the fires of your compassionate wisdom.

shyedang mepung barwé drowa la
Shower the nectar of love
jampé dütsi char chen pab né kyang
Upon those who fan the flames of hatred.
pentsün pama tabü dushé kyi
Bless them to recognize each another as parents,
dekyi tashi pelwar jingyi lob
And thereby usher in auspiciousness and happiness.

gang gi gyü la shyukpé kechik gi
May the mischievous elemental spirits
lona lhamin shyindu gyur jepé
That enter the minds of beings
jungpo dukpé tsok nam tsarché né
And instantaneously transform their hosts into warring titans,
chinché chok dir gyuwar magyur chik
Never hold sway in this region again.

yulngor shiwé semchen tamché kyang
May all who have died in battles, fighting and wars,
deng né lé ngen gyundré künpang né
Immediately give up their indulgence in destructive action, cause and effect,
dewachen du dzü té kyé né kyang
And, having taken birth in the pure realm of Sukhāvatī,
tamché shying der tripar dzé du sol
Lead all to that same buddha realm.

kyegu tamché tsering nemé ching
May all beings have long, healthy lives,
tabtsö kün shyi gewa chu la chö
Be free of quarrels and strife, live according to the ten virtues,
charchu dü bab lo chuk taktu lek
And experience timely rains and bountiful harvests;
nöchü tashi pelwar dzé du sol
And may the auspiciousness of the environment and beings increase exponentially.

chönyi rangshyin nampar dakpa dang
May these pure, vast prayers be accomplished
chöchen gyundré luwa mepa dang
Through the compassion of the Guru, Yidam, and Three Rare and Sublime Ones;
lama yidam könchok tukjé yi
Suchness, which by its very nature is utterly pure;
namdak mönlam gyachen drubpar shok
And the appearance of things, the undeceiving nature of cause and effect.

When war raged in Minyak, Kham, and it looked as if there was no end in sight, for no one was
able to pacify the warring factions, the great yogin Thangtong Gyalpo arrived. He generated
bodhicitta, and by merely reciting these verses and scattering flowers, quelled the anger
and jealousy in the minds of the warring factions so that the conflict came to an end.
All came to have bountiful harvests and enjoy prosperity, auspiciousness and peace.

| Translated by Sean Price, 2020.

Source: "grub chen thang stong rgyal po'i rdo rje'i gsung mtshon gyi 'jigs pa zhi ba'i bden
tshig" in mkhyen brtse'i dbang po, blo gter dbang po. sgrub thabs kun btus. TBRC W23681. 14
vols. Kangra, H.P.: Indo-Tibetan Buddhist Literature Publisher, Dzongsar Inst. for Advanced
Studies, null. http://tbrc.org/link?RID=W23681 Vol. 14: 658–659

Version 1.1–20210605