The New Glorious Bestower of Immortality1
A Long-Life Practice and Empowerment that Unites the Oral, Treasure and Visionary Teachings
by Chöjé Lingpa

Namo guru amideva āyurjñāna siddhi hrīḥ

Lord of Siddhas, Thangtong Gyalpo, the Iron Bridge Builder,Indivisible from Buddha Amitābha
and Guru Padmasambhava,You are ever present as the youthful vase body in my heart’s centre.Please
make my life-pillar indestructible.

The practice that unifies the long-life practice which relies on the lord of the family2 of
the noble and compassionate Amoghapaśa,3 and the subsequent long-life practice that I received
from the Lord of Dharma, the great Iron Bridge Builder, in a vision, has three parts:1.
Setting up a shrine and engaging in the practice of approach and accomplishment, 2. Granting
the long-life blessing based on the former practice, 3. A daily practice following the
treasure’s root text and a method for resting the mind in naturalness
1.1. Setting up a Shrine
For the shrine cover a clean and elevated place with a cloth and place five piles of flowers
upon it. Alternatively, draw an eight-petaled lotus on the surface of the shrine and upon
it place a precious vessel containing a vase-shaped long-life torma that is adorned with
the leaves of the wish-fulfilling tree and ornamented with a horse’s head and arrange the
long-life pills around the torma. Next to this, place an authentic skull filled with long-life
alcohol made of grain spirit mixed with the three sweets4 and the samaya substances.
Then, place the two water offering bowls as well as the remaining five offering bowls, either
in a straight line in front, or in a circle surrounding this set-up.
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
nama sarwa tathagaté bhyo bisho mukhé bhé sarwa takham utgaté saparana imam gagana kham soha
namaḥ sarva tathāgatebhayo viśva mukhebhyaḥ sarvathākhaṃ udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gagana khaṃ svāhā
gang dak dir né lha dang lu
All those who dwell in this place—gods and nāgas,
nöjin sinpo am shyendak la
Yakṣas, rākṣasas, and others—
kyilkhor dön du sa chok dir
For the sake of this maṇḍala, in this place,
dak shyu kyö kyi tsal du sol
I pray: please grant us the space!
naljor dakchak khor ché la
May we yogins with our disciples
né mé tsé dang wangchuk dang
Obtain mastery, freedom from disease, long life,
pel dang drak dang kelwa zang
Glory, fame, good fortune,
long chö gya chen kun top ching
And all great and vast enjoyments.
shyi dang gyé la sok pa yi
Grant us the siddhis
lé kyi ngödrup dak la tsol
Of the pacifying, enriching actions and so on.
damtsik chen gyi dak la sung
Samaya holders, guard us.
ngödrup kun gyi dong drok dzö
Support us with all the siddhis.
dü min chi dang né nam dang
May there be no untimely death, illness,
dön dang gek nam mé par dzö
Döns, or obstructing spirits for us.
milam ngen dang tsen ma ngen
May we have no nightmares,
cha ché ngenpa mé par dzö
Ill omens or bad dealings.
jikten dé shying lo lek dang
May the world enjoy peace, good harvests,
dru nam pel shing chuk pelwa
Abundant grain, expansion of Dharma,
gé lek punsum tsokpé né
And glorious auspiciousness.
yi la dö pa kun drup shok
Accomplish whatever mind desires!
Throw the torma outside.
Next, in order to expel obstructors recite the four-hūṃ mantra three times:
om sumbhani sumbhani hung | grihana grihana hung | grihanapaya grihanapaya hung | anaya ho |
bhagawan bidyaraza krodha hung pé
oṃ sumbha(ni) sumbhani hūṃ | gṛhṇa gṛhṇa hūṃ | gṛhṇāpaya gṛhṇapāya hūṃ | ānaya ho bhagavān vidyārāja
hūṃ phaṭ ||
tengok bartsam mepar dorjé rawa dang gur ladré yeshe kyi mebarwa dang chepé sungkhor du gyur
Surrounding me in all directions forms a seamless protection circle of a vajra fence and canopy
blazing with wisdom fire.
benza raksha hung
vajra-rakṣa hūṃ ||
Cleanse the offerings with:
om benza amritakundali hana hana hung pé
oṃ vajrāmṛta-kuṇḍali hana hana hūṃ phaṭ ||
And, purify them with:
om sobhava shuddha sarva dharma sobhava shuddho hang
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ ||
tongpé ngang lé pemé nö du hung yik shyuwa lé jungwé yönchab shyabsil metok dukpö marmé drichab
shyalzé rolmo nam dak ching tsangden drima mepa lhadzé kyi chöpé trin yeshe kyi rolpar
charwar gyur
Out of emptiness appears the syllable hūṃ within a lotus vessel. The syllable melts and transforms
into the wisdom play of cloud banks of divine substances, pristine, clean and immaculate:
offering water and cleansing water, flowers, incense, butter lamps, scented water,
food and music.
om benza argham ah hung | om benza padam ah hung | om benza pupé ah hung | om benza dhupé ah
hung | om benza aloké ah hung | om benza gendhé ah hung | om benza newité ah hung | om benza
shabda ah hung |
oṃ vajra arghaṃ āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra pādyaṃ āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra puṣpe āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra dhūpe āḥ
hūṃ | oṃ vajra āloke āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra gandhe āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra naivedye āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra
śabda āḥ hūṃ ||
By blessing the offering substances with these mantras, they become a feast filling the entire
sky.
könchok sum la dak kyab chi
I take refuge in the Three Jewels,
dikpa mi gé sosor shak
Confess all my wrongdoing and non-virtuous actions,
drowé gé la jé yi rang
Rejoice in the virtues of beings,
sangye changchub yi kyi zung
And maintain the mind of awakening to buddhahood.
sangye chö dang tsok chok la
I take refuge in the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
changchub bardu dak kyab chi
Until I reach enlightenment.
dak dang shyendön rab drub chir
To fully accomplish the benefit of myself and others
changchub sem di kyepar gyi
I arouse the heart of the awakening.
changchub chok gi sem ni kyé gyi né
Having aroused the supreme heart of awakening,
semchen tamché dak gi drön du nyer
I will honour all being as my guests
changchub chö chok yi ong chepar gyi
And uphold the supreme awakened conduct, pleasing to all.
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
For the benefit of beings, I will accomplish buddhahood.
With this, offer the seven-branches of mantra.
1.2. The Approach: The Self-Visualization
Following the treasure text, recite:
hung, chöku tsenma künpang nyamnyi lé
Hūṃ. From the dharmakāya’s equality, devoid of conceptualizations,
magak cho rol longku chenrezik
As its unceasing magical display, I appear as the sambhogakāya Avalokiteśvara,
rab kar shyal chik chak shyi kyiltrung shyuk
Brilliant white, with one face, four hands, and sitting cross-legged.
tsawé chak nyi tukkar talmo jar
His first two hands are joined at his heart, and
ok ma yé yön shel treng pekar nam
His lower two hold a crystal mālā and white lotus.
tsenpé palbar longchö dzokpé ku
He is ablaze in splendour with all the major and minor marks of the sambhogakāya.
nang la rangshyin ma drub lhammewa
Although appearing vividly he lacks true existence.
nyamnyi tukjé dögar chitsuk tu
On his crown, as the expression of impartial compassion,
tayé rik gyé khyabdak öpakmé
Appears Amitābha, lord of the hundred families,
mar sal shyi dzum jatsön ökor khyil
Brilliant red, peacefully smiling, residing within a halo of rainbow light.
chak nyi nyam shyak tengdu tsebum ni
His two hands, resting in equipoise, hold a long-life vase,
dütsi men chü jung ngé dangmé gang
Which is filled with the luminous essence of the five elements, the medicinal nectar of immortality.
tsenpé cha dzok legen chögö sol
He wears a red dharma robe and he is adorned with all with all the major and minor marks.
dorjé kyiltrung pé dé den la shyuk
He rests in the cross-legged vajra posture upon a lotus and moon-disc seat.
tukkar da teng ü su hrih marpo
In the centre of his heart, upon a moon-disc, is a red hrīḥ,
takor amarani ngak kyi kor
Surrounded by the revolving amāraṇi-mantra.
ö trö chirol jungwa nga yi chü
Light radiates from the mantra and gathers the essence of the five elements of the external
world,
kyendrö tsesö pakpé tukjé dang
The vitality and merit of beings, the compassion of the noble ones,
dak gi la tsé ché yar torpa sok
My dissipated and scattered life force and so forth,
tsé pal kündü chak gi bumpar khyil
Into the all-embodying vase of longevity and glory.
dé lé lüpé dak gi tsang buk shyuk
The nectar overflows and enters my brahma-aperture,
lü kün gangwé dewa chenpor gyur
Filling my entire body with great bliss.
Together with this visualisation, recite the following mantra as much as you can:
om amarani dziwenti yé soha
oṃ amāraṇī jīvantaye svāhā ||
mingyur mishik dorjé tsewang tob
The empowerment of unchanging, indestructible vajra-life is obtained.
kyemé chö kyi ying su tsé ba o
My longevity is sealed within the unborn dharmadhātu.
sishyi dangchü tamché tuk sok hrih la düpé tar lha ku shyal chak gi nampachen dedé shyin nyi
kyi ting ngé dzin gyi ngang du nyampar jok
All the luminous essences of existence and quiescence are drawn into the life-force syllable
hrīḥ. At the end, the appearance of the deities’ forms dissolve as well. Rest within the
samādhi of suchness.
This seals the life-force according to the completion phase. Then again, arise in the deity’s
genuine form.
1.3. The Accomplishment of the Practice of the Front Visualisation
dün gyi kyilkhor gyi ü su drubpé wangchuk tangtong gyalpo kudok muknak ziji barwa utra dang
minma mara aktsom nam sé khyuk gewa lo gya lönpé ngang tsulchen
In front, in the maṇḍala’s centre, appears the Lord of Siddhas, Thangtong Gyalpo, dark red in
colour, his radiance majestic and resplendent. His hair, eyebrows and beard sparkle like
gold. He appears as one who has lived a hundred years.
chak nyi nyam shyak gi teng na wang tor dang nyisumepé tsé bumpa paksam shing gi kha gyen dang
chepa barché sung chir ta gö tsenpa nampa
In his hands, resting in equipoise, he holds the long-life vase—indivisible from the empowerment
torma. Its lid is ornamented by a wish-fulfilling tree and it is adorned by a horse head
protecting against obstacles.5
ré kar gyi naza drima mepa solwa ridak kyi pakpé den la kyilmo trung gi shyukpé u tsuk tu nangwa
tayé mar sal tulkü chaluk nyam shyak tsebum dzinpa drinpar tamdrin mar sal yé pemé tsenpé
yukto char shying yön töpa trak gi gangwa tukkar dzinpa shyab yé kum shying yön kyangwé
tab kyi shyengpa durtrö kyi ché gyé kyi gyenpa
Thangtong Gyalpo wears a pristine white cotton robe and sits cross-legged upon a deer-skin seat.
On his head is Amitāyus, brilliant red, resting in equipoise in nirṃanakāya attire, and
holding a long-life vase. At his throat is Hayagrīva, brilliant red, brandishing a lotus-adorned
staff in his right hand and holding a skull-cup filled with blood in his left hand.
He stands with his right leg extended and his left leg drawn in and he is adorned with
the eight charnel ground ornaments.
tukkar lobpön chenpo pema jungné kudok kar mar dorjé dang töpa dzinpa pöka chögö zaok gi ber
dang nyen shyusol ba dorjé kyilmo trung gi shyukpa
At his heart is the great master Padmasambhava, white with a tinge of red, holding a vajra and
a skull-cup. He wears a cloak, a dharma robe, a lower garment, and a hat, and resides in
crossed-legged vajra posture.
chi kor du lama yidam pawo khandro chökyong sungma tsé la wangwé rigdzin tamché trinpung tibpa
tabur shyukpar gyur
Surrounding Thangtong Gyalpo, like billowing clouds, are the gurus, yidams, vīras, ḍākinīs,
protectors and guardians of the dharma, and all the vidyādharas with power over life.
hrih hrih hrih, nangwa tayé dro kün jesu kyong
Hrīḥ, hrīḥ, hrīḥ. Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one,
tsepakmé gön dro la chimé ter
Lord Amitāyus, Boundless Life, you grant us immortality,
tamdrin wanggyal drowé barché sel
All-powerful Hayagrīva, you eliminate every obstacle we face,
pema jungné nyikdü drowé kyab
Padmasambhava, you are our refuge in this darkest of times,
tangtong gyalpor soltab luwamé
Thangtong Gyalpo, you never fail to answer our prayers.
solwa deb so galkyen barché sol
Now, I pray to you all: dispel everything unfavourable, every obstacle,
jingyi lob shik chimé ngödrub tsol
Fill me, transform me with your blessing—grant me the siddhi of immortal life!
Recite this prayer three times, or however much you can. Then recite the following mantra:
om amarani dziwenti guru pema krodha punyé jnana ayur siddhi hrih hrih hrih
oṃ amāraṇi jīvantaye guru-padma-krodha punye jñāna āyur siddhi hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ ||
Infinite light rays radiate from the hearts of the deities causing my degenerated and dissipated
life force, the essence of the four elements, the vitality and merit of beings, and all
the compassion of the noble ones, to gather, like bees collecting nectar from flowers into
the long-life vase resting in the Mahāsiddha’s hands.
This causes the vase to overflow with the immortal nectar, which dissolves into the long-life
substances and enters my body through the brahma-aperture. The nectar fills my whole body
and grants me the siddhi of immortality. While imagining this, accumulate the mantra for
a while.
At the end recite:
om guru aparimita ayur jñana sapariwara argham padyam pushpé dhupé aloké gendhé newedyé shabdé
praticcha soha
oṃ guru-aparimita-āyurjñāna saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabde
pratīccha svāhā ||
With this, make offerings.
jikten drenpé tsowo tsepakmé
Buddha of Infinite Life, foremost guide for beings in this world,
dümin chiwa malü jom dzepa
Your glory overcomes all untimely death,
gönmé dukngal gyurpa nam kyi kyab
You are a refuge for those of us who suffer without protection—
ku sum tsé yi lha la chaktsal tö
To you, long-life deity of the three kāyas, I offer homage and praise!
With this, offer praises.
chimé tsé yi pal la longchö ching
The enjoyment and splendour of a deathless, everlasting life,
rigpé lo dang namchö sherab dang
Keen intellect, discernment, and insight,
si dang shyiwé paljor gang lakpa
And all the riches and glories of existence and quiescence,
dedak lhün gyi drubpar dzé du sol
May they all be spontaneously accomplished, we pray!
With this, make aspirations.
2. The Long-Life Blessing for the Disciples
The vajra master performs the cleansing ritual for the disciples and in turn the disciples offer
a maṇḍala of flowers. The master then says:
o namkha dang nyampé semchen tamché kyi döndu chimé tsepakmé kyi gopang rinpoche tobpar ja dé
chedu tsewang zabmo shyu nyampa dzé dé sen tsal
So that we may attain the precious level of deathless Amitāyus for the benefit of all sentient
beings who are as infinite as space, I will bestow this long-life empowerment. Thus please
pay attention and listen!
deyang lobpön pema jungné kyi ngönsum du jin gyi labpa ni drubpé wangchuk tangtong gyalpo nyi
yin shying dené gyüpé tsedrub chimé pal ter du drakpa di la ring gyü dang nyegyü nyi su
yöpa lé
The one blessed in actuality by the master Padmasambhava himself is no other than the Lord of
Siddhas, Thangtong Gyalpo. His famous long-life practice, the Glorious Bestower of Immortality,
has both a long and a short lineage.
dangpo ring gyü ni drubpé wangchuk chak zampa né tendzin nyima zangpo sok lé gyü dé tsawé lamé
bardu jönpa dang
As for the former: The Lord of Siddhas, the Iron Bridge Builder, gave this practice to Tendzin
Nyima Zangpo,6 and thus the lineage continued until my own root teacher.
nyipa nyegyü ni pakpa tukjé chenpo dön yö shyakpa lé deshyin nyi du rikdak la ten né tsedrub
pa tsödral dü bab kyi tertön rigdzin chenpo chöjé lingpé ter jön dang daknang du drubpé wangchuk
chenpö tsalpé tsedrub nyegyü dé
As for the latter: The short lineage comprises the long-life practice which relies on the lord
of the family7 of the noble and compassionate Amoghapaśa—that is the treasure revealed
by the indisputable and timely treasure revealer, the great vidyādhara Chöjé Lingpa—and the
long-life practice that Chöjé Lingpa received in a vision from the great Lord of Siddhas
himself. These two practices together constitute the short lineage.
detabü kater daknang zungjuk gi goné chimé tsé wangkurwa kabsu babpa yinpé dé la dangpor lobpön
la solwa tabpa di jé dö dzö
Since the moment has come to bestow the long-life empowerment for this practice which unites
the oral, treasure and visionary teachings, repeat the following prayer after me:
künkhyen yeshe pungpochen
Omniscient one, embodiment of primordial wisdom,
sipé khorlo nam jongwa
Who thoroughly purifies the wheel of existence––
dering shepé rinchen ter
Lord, with your kindness, grant me this precious treasure
tsowö dak la kadrin tsol
Of which you have spoken today.
Three times.
dün gyi namkhar tsok shying nam shyukpé chen ngar kyamdro gyün shak kyang di jé dö dzö
Before the field of refuge in the sky in front, repeat these verses of refuge and confession
after me:
könchok sum la dak kyab chi
I take refuge in the Three Jewels,
dikpa mi gé sosor shak
Confess all my wrongdoing and non-virtuous actions,
drowé gé la jé yi rang
Rejoice in the virtues of beings,
sangye changchub yi kyi zung
And maintain the mind of awakening to buddhahood.
sangye chö dang tsok chok la
I take refuge in the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
changchub bardu kyab su chi
Until I reach enlightenment.
rangshyen dön nyi rab drub chir
To fully accomplish the benefit of myself and others
changchub sem ni kyepar gyi
I will arouse the heart of the awakening.
changchub chok gi sem ni kyé gyi né
Having aroused the supreme heart of awakening,
semchen tamché dak gi drön du nyer
I will honour all beings as my guests
changchub chö chok yi ong chepar gyi
And uphold the supreme awakened conduct, pleasing to all.
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
For the benefit of beings, I will accomplish buddhahood.
Three times.
dené ngöshyi wang gi ledu mikpa di shyindu dzö dün gyi kyilkhor ü su drubpé wangchuk tangtong
gyalpo shyé sok né trinpung tibpa tabur shyukpé chen ngar chimé tsé ngödrub shyuwé chir
solwa debpa di jé dö len sum dzö
For the main part, the empowerment, the master recites the visualisation from “In the centre
of the maṇḍala in front of me, appears the Lord of Siddhas, Thangtong Gyalpo…” until “Surrounding
Thangtong Gyalpo, like billowing clouds, are the gurus, yidams, vīras, ḍākinīs, protectors
and guardians of the dharma, and all the vidyādharas with power over life.” Having
thus invited the deities, in order to request their siddhis of immortality, recite the
following prayer three times after me:
hrih hrih hrih, nangwa tayé dro kün jesu kyong
Hrīḥ, hrīḥ, hrīḥ! Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one,
tsepakmé gön dro la chimé ter
Lord Amitāyus, Boundless Life, you grant us immortality,
tamdrin wanggyal drowé barché sel
All-powerful Hayagrīva, you eliminate every obstacle we face,
pema jungné nyikdü drowé kyab
Padmasambhava, you are our refuge in this darkest of times,
tangtong gyalpor soltab luwamé
Thangtong Gyalpo, you never fail to answer our prayers.
solwa deb so galkyen barché sol
Now, I pray to you all: dispel everything unfavourable, every obstacle,
jingyi lob shik chimé ngödrub tsol
Fill me, transform me with your blessing—grant me the siddhi of immortal life!
Recite this prayer three times.
detar solwa tabpa la ten né lhatsok nam kyi tukka né özer marpo chakkyu tabu pak tu mepa trö
rang rang gi la tsé chenyam yarpa tamché dang jungwa shyi chü kyendrö tsesö pakpé tukjé tamché
bungwé metok gi chülen pa tar dü té drubtob chenpö chak gi bumpar shyuk
Pray like this and then image that infinite red lights in the shape of hooks emanate from the
hearts the assembled deities, gathering our degenerated and dissipated life force, the essence
of the four elements, the vitality and merit of beings, and all the compassion of the
noble ones—like bees collecting nectar from flowers—into the long-life vase resting in
the Mahāsiddha’s hands.
dütsi mashongwé tsul gyi kha né lhü kyi lüpa lobmé tsang buk né shyuk té lü kyi nang tamché
gangwé dü mayinpé chiwé jikpa jang chimé tsé ngödrub tobpé möpa dzö
This causes the vase to overflow with the immortal nectar which enters the disciples through
their brahma-aperture. It fills their whole bodies, purifies their fear of untimely death
and grants them the siddhi of immortality.
Then, place the long-life vase on the disciples’ heads and recite:
hrih hrih hrih, nangwa tayé dro kün jesu kyong
Hrīḥ, hrīḥ, hrīḥ! Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one…etc.
Add this mantra to the end of the prayer:
om amarani dziwenti guru pema krodha punyé jnana ayur siddhi hrih hrih hrih
oṃ amāraṇi jīvantaye guru-padma-krodha punye jñāna āyur siddhi hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ ||
Also give them the long-life pills and the long-life alcohol. If you are accumulating the long-life
blessing, repeat the prayer and mantra:
hrih hrih hrih, nangwa tayé dro kün jesu kyong
Hrīḥ, hrīḥ, hrīḥ! Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one…
Grant the empowerment with the long-life vase and give the long-life pills and the long-life
alcohol. It is good to accumulate this long-life blessing a hundred or a thousand times.
At the end scatter flowers and recite the prayer of auspiciousness:
chimé tsé yi pal la longchö ching
The enjoyment and splendour of a deathless, everlasting life,
rigpé lo dang namchö sherab dang
Keen intellect, discernment, and insight,
si dang shyiwé paljor gang lakpa
And all the riches and glories of existence and quiescence,
dedak lhün gyi drubpar dzé du sol
May they all be spontaneously accomplished, we pray.
pönlob mindral lhenchik drok
May the master and disciples never be separated.
kutsé mingyur sa shying ten
May the master’s life remain steadfast, stable and firm.
ja zang shyé tro gyün mi ché
May food and drink always be in constant supply.
kyi la chö pel tashi shok
May everything be auspicious for the spread of happiness and Dharma!
Then the students accept the samayas, offer a maṇḍala to express their gratitude and so forth
as is generally done. Next, make offerings to the deities of the front visualization with:
om guru aparimita ayur jñana sapariwara argham padyam pushpé dhupé aloké gendhé newedyé shabdé
praticcha soha
oṃ guru-aparimita-āyurjñāna saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabde
pratīccha svāhā ||
With this, perform the offerings.
jikten drenpé tsowo tsepakmé
Buddha of Infinite Life, foremost guide for beings in this world,
dümin chiwa malü jom dzepa
Your glory overcomes all untimely death,
gönmé dukngal gyurpa nam kyi kyab
You are a refuge for those of us who suffer without protection—
ku sum tsé yi lha la chaktsal tö
To you, long-life deity of the three kāyas, I offer homage and praise.
With this, offer praise.
Amend any omissions or additions with the hundred-syllable mantra:
om benza sato samaya | manupalaya | benza sato tenopa tishta dridho mé bhava | sutokhayo mé
bhava | supokhayo mé bhava | anurakto mé bhava | sarva siddhi mé prayaccha | sarva karma su
tsa mé | tsittam shreyang | kuru hung | ha ha ha ha ho | bhagavan | sarva tatagata benza
ma mé muntsa benzi bhava maha samaya sato ah
oṃ vajrasattva samayam anupālaya vajrasattva-tvenopa-tiṣṭha dṛḍho me bhava sutoṣyo me
bhava supoṣyo me bhava anurakto me bhava sarva-siddhiṃ me prayaccha sarva-karma śuca me cittaṃ
śreyaṃ-kuru hūṃ ha ha ha ha hoḥ bhagavān sarva-tathāgata-vajra mā me muñca vajrī-bhava
mahā-samaya-sattva āḥ ||
majorpa dang nyampa dang
For anything lacking or incomplete, and
gangyang dak mong lo yi ni
Whatever misdeeds I may have done or incited others to do
gyipa dang ni gyi tsalwa
Out of ignorance
dé kün gönpö zöpar sol
Please bear witness protectors and forgive them all!
yikgyé nongpa shak
I confess them with the hundred-syllable mantra!
With this, ask for forgiveness.
If you have a support for the wisdom deities, request them to stay. If not, request them to
depart. Then recite dedications, aspirations and prayers of auspiciousness.
3. The Daily Practice
Without having set up a shrine or gone through the preparations, recite the self-visualization
from
hung chöku tsenma künpang nyamnyi lé
Hūṃ, from the dharmakāya’s equality, devoid of conceptualizations…
Until:
kyemé chö kyi ying su tsé ba o
My longevity is sealed within the unborn dharmadhātu.
Thus simply recite the treasure root text without alteration.
As the sun-like compassion of Padmasambhava and the Iron Bridge Builder shines, The grove of
white lotus flowers of wisdom and intelligence bloom,And this fresh nectar-like teaching
on obtaining supreme and ordinary siddhis,Is naturally revealed!
Without fabricating anything unrelated to the original practice,Chöjé Lingpa arranged this garland-like
addendum,Which unites the oral and treasure lineages.Through the original revelation
may the state of Samantabhadra be spontaneously accomplished!
Sarvadā maṅgalaṃ!

| Translated by Stefan Mang with the kind assistance of Han Kop, 2020. The prayers beginning
with “gang dak dir né…,” “könchok sum la…,” “jikten tsowo…,” and “nangwa tayé...” courtesy
of Rigpa Translations.

Source: "bka' gter dag snang zung du 'brel ba'i tshe sgrub shin tu nye brgyud kyi sgrub thabs
dbang chog dang bcas pa" in mkhyen brtse'i dbang po, blo gter dbang po. sgrub thabs kun
btus. BDRC W23681. 14 vols. Kangra, H.P.: Indo-Tibetan Buddhist Literature Publisher, Dzongsar
Inst. for Advanced Studies, null. Vol. 1: 478–484

Version: 1.2-20211229
↑ New (gsar pa) here implies that Chöjé Lingpa revised Thangtong Gyalpo’s long-life practice
The Glorious Bestower of Immortality based on his own treasure revelation and pure vision.↑
That is Amitāyus.↑ This appears to be referring to both the long-life practice composed
by Thangtong Gyalpo himself and the long-life practice revealed as a treasure by Chöjé Lingpa.↑
The three sweets are sugar, honey and molasses.↑ The sign of Hayagrīva.↑ Tendzin Nyima
Zangpo (b. 1436) was Thangtong Gyalpo’s son.↑ That is Amitāyus.