The Verses that Saved Sakya from Sickness
A Prayer for Pacifying the Fear of Disease
by Thangtong Gyalpo

lé dang lobur kyen lé gyurpa yi
May all the diseases that disturb the minds of sentient beings,
dön dang né dang jungpö tsewa sok
And which result from karma and temporary conditions,
semchen yi midewé né nam kün
Such as the harms of spirits, illness, and the elements,
jikten kham su jungwar magyur chik
Never occur throughout the realms of this world.

jitar shemé tripé seja shyin
May whatever sufferings arise due to life-threatening diseases,
kechik chik la lü sem dral jepé
Which, like a butcher leading an animal to the slaughter,
sok trok né kyi dukngal jinyé pa
Separate the body from the mind in a mere instant,
jikten kham su jungwar magyur chik
Never occur throughout the realms of this world.

chidak shen jé kha nang tsüpa tar
May all embodied beings remain unharmed
né kyi ming tsam töpé trak jepé
By acute, chronic and infectious diseases,
nyin chikpa dang takpé rim sok kyi
The mere names of which can inspire the same terror
lüchen kün la nöpar magyur chik
As would be felt in the jaws of Yama, Lord of Death.

nöpé gek rik tongtrak gyechu dang
May the 80,000 classes of harmful obstructors,
lobur yé drok sumgya druk chu dang
The 360 evil spirits that harm without warning,
shyigya tsa shyi né lasokpa yi
The 404 types of disease,1 and so forth
lüchen kün la tsewar magyur chik
Never cause harm to any embodied being!

lü sem dewa malü trok jepé
May whatever sufferings arise due to disturbances in the four elements,
jung shyi trukpé dukngal jinyé pa
Depriving the body and mind of every pleasure,
malü shyi shying dang tob denpa dang
Be totally pacified, and may the body and mind have radiance and power,
tsering nemé dekyi denpar shok
And be endowed with long life, good health, and well-being.

lama könchok sum gyi tukjé dang
By the compassion of the gurus and the Three Jewels,
khandro chökyong sungmé nütu dang
The power of the ḍākinīs, Dharma protectors and guardians,
lé dré luwa mepé den tob kyi
And by the strength of the infallibility of karma and its results,
ngowa mönlam tab tsé drubpar shok
May these many dedications and prayers be fulfilled as soon as they are made.

Once, an epidemic was spreading from one person to the next at the great monastery of the Glorious
Sakya tradition. Whatever the mantric masters tried—effigies, tormas, medicines, mantras,
protection-amulets, and so on—had no effect, and the monastery was in danger of annihilation.
At that time, the master mahāsiddha Thangtong Gyalpo performed the refuge prayer
which begins, “Sentient beings in number as vast as space”, then recited a number of Maṇi
mantras, and said following the Teachers' words, “These aspirations become reality...”.
At that time, the entire epidemic immediately ceased in dependence upon the performance of
this prayer. Thereby, it became renowned as the vajra speech radiating cloud-like blessings
entitled ‘The Prayer that Saved Sakya from Disease.’

| Translated by Sean Price (Tenzin Jamchen), 2014. Edited and revised for Lotsawa House, 2016.
↑ There are various ways of listing the 404 types of disease. According to one method, there
are 101 types of disease caused by evil spirits, 101 brought about by immediate circumstances,
101 based on humoural imbalances and 101 caused by past karma. Another system counts
101 types related to wind, 101 related to bile, 101 related to phlegm and 101 related to
the combination of them all. Yet another system counts 101 types of disease deriving from
anger, fire and bile; 101 deriving from ignorance, earth and phlegm; 101 deriving from jealousy
and wind; and 101 deriving from desire, water and a combination of all three humours.