The Sādhana and Empowerment for the Extremely Close Lineage of the Long-Life Practice that Unites
the Oral, Treasure and Visionary Teachings
by Chöjé Lingpa

Homage to the Lord of Siddhas1 who is indivisible from the great master Padmasambhava!
These notes on performing this extraordinary long-life practice were given to me in a vision
directly by the Mahāsiddha2 himself.
Visualize yourself as a yidam deity, such as Hayagrīva, and imagine:
dün gyi namkhar namchak dorjé ni
In the sky before me appears a vajra of meteoric iron.
gyurmé dorjé tsé nga mebar sal
This unchanging, five-pronged vajra blazes with fire.
té ü drubpé wangchuk chak zampa
In its centre resides the Lord of Siddhas, Thangtong Gyalpo, the Iron Bridge Builder.
lo gya lön tsul utra mara dang
He appears as a hundred-year-old man, with white hair and a white beard.
aktsom kar la muknak chen sum bar
He is dark red in colour and his three eyes are aglow.
ku la ré gö drima mepa sol
He wears a white cotton robe.
dorjé kyiltrung nyam shyak tsebum dzin
He rests in equipoise in the crossed-legged vajra posture and holds a long-life vase.
u tsuk sangye nangwa tayé shyuk
Atop his head is Amitābha, Buddha of Limitless Light.
drinpar tamdrin trogyal mepung bar
At his throat, within a blazing mass of fire, is the Wrathful King, Hayagrīva.
tukkar pema jungné kar mar dang
In his heart is Padmasambhava, his complexion white with a tinge of red.
denam sal gom daknyi dümin du
By visualizing them clearly, all obstacles3
chi sok barché nyertsé shyiwa dang
And dangers, such as untimely death, are overcome,
tsering gyurmé dorjé ku drub chir
And long-life and the unchanging vajra-body are accomplished.
dün gyi drubtob chenpor kha nying tré
Upon meeting the Mahāsiddha face to face
mögü kyé dé solwa ditar tab
Devotion wells up, and so I offer this heartfelt prayer:

hrih hrih hrih, nangwa tayé dro kün jesu kyong
Hrīḥ, hrīḥ, hrīḥ! Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one,
tsepakmé gön dro la chimé ter
Lord Amitāyus, Boundless Life, you grant us immortality,
tamdrin wanggyal drowé barché sel
All-powerful Hayagrīva, you eliminate every obstacle we face,
pema jungné nyikdü drowé kyab
Padmasambhava, you are our refuge in this darkest of times,
tangtong gyalpor soltab luwamé
Thangtong Gyalpo, you never fail to answer our prayers.
solwa deb so galkyen barché sol
Now, I pray to you all: dispel everything unfavourable, every obstacle,
jingyi lob shik chimé ngödrub tsol
Fill me, transform me with your blessing—grant me the siddhi of immortal life!

len sum solwa tabpé drubtob dang
By reciting this prayer three times light radiates from the Mahāsiddha
né sum lha yi ku lé özer trö
And from the deities residing in his three centres,
dak gi la tsé yarpa torpa dang
Causing my dissipated and scattered life force,
dé gyé mi mayin gyi barché dang
The obstacles created by the eight classes of non-humans,
jung shyi chü dang kyendrö tsesö dang
The essence of the four elements, beings’ longevity and merit,
pakpé tukjé tamché chimé kyi
And all the compassion of the noble ones
dütsi özer drangtsi tabur dü
To gather in honey-like light rays of immortal nectar,
bumpar timpé ma shong kha né lü
Which melt into his long-life vase, causing it to overflow
dak gi tsangpé buga né mar shyuk
And enter my body through the brahma-aperture.
lü kün gangwé chimé tsewang tob
It fills my whole body and grants the empowerment of immortality.
Without distraction recite this mantra one hundred times every day:
om amarani dziwenti guru pema krodha punyé jnana ayur siddhi hrih hrih hrih
oṃ amāraṇi jīvantaye guru-padma-krodha punye jñāna āyur siddhi hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ

tamar drubtob chenpo ö du shyu
At the end the Mahāsiddha melts into light.
dak la timpé daknyi drubchen ku
He dissolves into me, and I assume the form
ngama tabu dorjé den la khö
Of the Mahāsiddha seated in the vajra’s centre as before.
ratsé né trö tsöncha mé gur gyi
Weapons stream forth from the vajra’s prongs forming a blazing tent.
barchö sungwé khorlö korwar gom
I meditate on a spinning protection circle which guards against obstacles.

If you recite the prayer one hundred and eight times And the mantra one thousand times every
day, Have no doubt that You will reach a hundred years And see a hundred autumn moons!

I wrote these notes down as they were directly bestowed by the Mahāsiddha. After Samten Paljor
made a lavish maṇḍala offering of precious substances, I thought that, although there are
many long-life practices, this one possesses particularly potent blessings, and so gave
it to him.

| Translated by Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (Stefan Mang and Peter Woods), 2020. The prayer
beginning with “nangwa tayé...” courtesy of Rigpa Translations.

Source: "bka' gter dag snang zung du 'brel ba'i tshe sgrub shin tu nye brgyud kyi sgrub thabs
dbang chog dang bcas pa" in mkhyen brtse'i dbang po, blo gter dbang po. sgrub thabs kun
btus. BDRC W23681. 14 vols. Kangra, H.P.: Indo-Tibetan Buddhist Literature Publisher, Dzongsar
Inst. for Advanced Studies, null. Vol. 1: 475–478

Version: 1.2-20211229
↑ Thangtong Gyalpo.↑ Thangtong Gyalpo.↑ A note in the Tibetan says that the visualization is
as clear as a reflection in a mirror (me long gzugs brnyan ‘char bzhin gsal).