Prayer to Noble Avalokiteśvara
Vajra Speech of the Prayer to Noble Avalokiteśvara from the Great Siddha Thangtong Gyalpo's
Life as Bhikṣu Padma Karpo
recalled by Thangtong Gyalpo

solwa deb so lama chenrezik
To you I pray, guru Avalokiteśvara.
solwa deb so yidam chenrezik
To you I pray, yidam Avalokiteśvara.
solwa deb so pakchok chenrezik
To you I pray, sublime noble Avalokiteśvara.
solwa deb so kyab gön chenrezik
To you I pray, lord of refuge Avalokiteśvara.
solwa deb so jam gön chenrezik
To you I pray, loving protector Avalokiteśvara.
tukjé zung shik gyalwa tukjé chen
Hold me in your compassion, caring and victorious one.
tamé khorwar drangmé khyam gyur ching
For us beings who wander endlessly throughout saṃsāra
zömé dukngal nyongwé drowa la
And are subjected to intolerable pain and suffering,
gönpo khyé lé kyab shyen ma chi so
Protector, we have no other refuge but you.
namkhyen sangye tobpar jingyi lob
Inspire us to attain omniscience and awakening.
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
shyedang wang gi nyalwar kyé gyur té
Beings who are overcome with hatred take birth in the hells,
tsadrang dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
Where they suffer the torments of intense heat and cold:
lha chok khyé kyi drung du kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in your presence, O supreme of deities!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
serné wang gi yidak né su kyé
Beings who are overcome with miserliness take birth in the preta realm,
trekom dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
Where they suffer the torments of intense hunger and thirst:
shying chok potala ru kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in your supreme Potala pureland!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
timuk wang gi düdror kyé gyur té
Beings who are overcome with folly take birth as animals,
lenkuk dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
And experience the misery of verbal incapacity and confusion:
gönpo khyé kyi drung du kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in your presence, O protector!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
trakdok wang gi lhamin né su kyé
Beings who are overcome with jealousy take birth in the asura realm,
tabtsö dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
Where they suffer the torments of conflict and dispute:
po ta la yi shying du kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in the Potala pureland!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
ngagyal wang gi lha yi né su kyé
Beings who are overcome with pride take birth in the deva realm,
po tung dukngal nyongwé semchen nam
Where they suffer the torments of transmigration and fall:
po ta la yi shying du kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in the Potala pureland!
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
tokmé dü né lé ngen sakpé tü
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
döchak wang gi mi yi né su kyé
Beings who are overcome with passionate desire take birth in the human realm,
kyé ga na chi dukngal nyongwa nam
Where they suffer the torments of birth, old age, sickness and death:
po ta la yi shying du kyewar shok
May they all be reborn in the Potala pureland!1
om mani padmé hung
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
dak ni kyé shying kyewa tamché du
May I, in this and all my future lives,
chenrezik dang dzepa tsungpa yi
Through activity like that of Avalokiteśvara,
ma dak shying gi dro nam drolwa dang
Liberate the beings of impure realms,
sung chok yik druk chok chur gyepar shok
And transmit the supreme speech of the six syllables throughout the ten directions!
pakchok khyé la solwa tabpé tü
Through the force of invoking you, the supremely noble,
dak gi duljar gyurpé drowa nam
May all those whom I must discipline and guide,
lé dré lhurlen gewé lé la tsön
Take interest in cause and effect, strive to act virtuously,
drowé döndu chö dang denpa shok
And come to possess the qualities that may benefit all.

The great siddha Thangtong Gyalpo remembered his previous life as the bhikṣu Padma Karpo, during
which he practised fasting between the ages of twenty and eighty and prayed single-pointedly
to Noble Avalokiteśvara with these words. They thus convey supremely powerful blessings.
Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2020.

Sources: "grub pa'i dbang phyug thang stong rgyal po la thugs rje chen pos dngos su gnang ba'i
snying po yi ge drug pa'i nyams len gyi gzhung gsal byed dang bcas pa" in mkhyen brtse'i
dbang po, blo gter dbang po. sgrub thabs kun btus. BDRC W23681. 14 vols. Kangra, H.P.: Indo-Tibetan
Buddhist Literature Publisher, Dzongsar Inst. for Advanced Studies, null. Vol.
3: 35–37
'jam mgon kong sprul blo gros mtha' yas. "pad+ma dkar por skye ba bzhes pa'i tshe spyan ras
gzigs la gsol ba bdab pa'i rdo rje'i gsung/." In rgya chen bka' mdzod. New Delhi: Shechen,
2002. Volume 5: 467–468

Version: 1.2-20211229
↑ This verse is omitted in the version of this prayer in Jamgön Kongtrul’s Treasury of Extensive
Teachings (rgya chen bka’ mdzod).