Words of Advice on Accomplishing Immortality
An Extremely Concise Daily Practice Uniting the Short Lineages of Amitāyus and Hayagrīva
by Jamyang Khyentsé Wangpo

Namo gurubhyaḥ!
The concise daily practice for the visualisation and recitation of the Glorious Bestower of
Immortality, which unites the short lineages of Amitāyus and Hayagrīva, is as follows:
Refuge and Bodhicitta
dak sok dro kün deng né changchub bar
From now until enlightenment, I and all sentient beings
tsa sum tsé yi lha la kyab su chi
Take refuge in the Long-Life Deity embodying the Three Roots.
shyendön dzokpé sangye tob jé chir
In order to attain perfect buddhahood for the benefit of beings,
chimé rigdzin drubpar semkyé do
I will generate bodhicitta through practicing the vidyādhara of immortality.
Recite this, three times.
Visualization
om sobhawa shuddha sarwa dharma sobhawa shuddho ham
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ ||
neyul nöchü mimik tongpé ngang
The environment itself, and everything within it, in the state of referenceless emptiness,
chinö dechen pemo köpé shying
Becomes the Lotus Arrayed Pure Land of Great Bliss.
dé ü majé tekpé rinchen trir
At its centre, on a jewelled throne supported by peacocks,
natsok pé dé tengdu rangsem hih
Upon a multicoloured lotus and moon disc seat,Rests my mind as the syllable hrīḥ.
yong gyur daknyi gönpo tsepakmé
From it, I arise as the protector Amitāyus.
mar sal shyal chik chak nyi nyamshyak teng
Brilliant red, with one face and two hands resting in equipoise,
chimé dütsi gangwé tsebum nam
Holding the long-life vase filled with the nectar of immortality.
dar dang rinchen gyen dzok kyiltrung shyuk
Adorned with silks and jewels, he sits in cross-legged posture.
tukkar da teng hrih yik marpo yi
In his heart upon a moon disc rests the red hrīḥ syllable
khokpar tsé ten ö ngé tiklé tsen
And within it the long-life support, a bindu of five-coloured light.
chiwö teng na tsa gyü lama nam
Above Amitāyus’ head are the root and lineage masters, seated in tiers,
chomden tsepakmé gön nampa ru
With the Blessed Protector highest of all, the Buddha of Boundless Life.
to tsek tsul gyi shyukpé tukka né
Light shoots forth from the deities’ hearts, inviting the wisdom beings.
ö trö yeshe chendrang nyimé tim
They dissolve indivisibly with me
kyabné tamché düpé ngowo gyur
And I become the embodiment of all the sources of refuge.
dza hung bam ho
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
Invocation and Mantra
Fold your hands and recite:
om ah hung hrih hrih, nangwa tayé dro kün jesu kyong
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ hrīḥ! Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one,
tsepakmé gön dro la chimé ter
Lord Amitāyus, Boundless Life, you grant us immortality,
tamdrin wanggyal drowé barché sel
All-powerful Hayagrīva, you eliminate every obstacle we face,
pema jungné nyikdü drowé kyab
Padmasambhava, you are our refuge in this darkest of times,
tangtong gyalpo soltab luwamé
Thangtong Gyalpo, you never fail to answer our prayers.
solwa deb so galkyen barché sol
Now, I pray to you all: dispel everything unfavourable, every obstacle,
jingyi lob shik chimé ngödrub tsol
Fill me, transform me with your blessing—grant me the siddhi of immortal life!
om ah hung hrih hrih benza guru pema siddhi punyé jnana ayur siddhi dza
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ hrīḥ vajra-guru-padma siddhi punje jñāna āyur siddhi jaḥ ||

tsa gyü lamé tukké özer gyi
Light shoots forth from the hearts of the root and lineage masters,
rang gi la tsé chenyam yarwa dang
Causing my depleted, waning, dispersing life-force
sishyi tsechü dü né bumpar tim
And the life essence of all existence and quiescence to gather and dissolve into the long-life
vase.
dütsi gyün lü tsangpé goné shyuk
A stream of nectar flows from the vase, entering my body through the brahma-aperture.
lü künkhyab pé nedön dikdrib jang
The nectar fills my body and purifies all disease, all harmful influences, defilements and obscurations,
chimé tsé yi ngödrub tobpar gyur
And grants the siddhi of immortality.
Once you have recited and visualized this, accumulate the prayer and mantra as much as you can.
Conclusion
At the conclusion of the practice, recite:
tsa gyü lama yidam shyitro yi
Root and lineage masters, peaceful and wrathful yidam deities,
tu dang nüpé jinlab pung kyé la
By the power and strength of your blessings
galkyen nedön dikdrib shyiwa dang
Pacify all adversities, diseases, harmful influences, defilements and obscurations!
tsé dang yeshe chimé ngödrub tsol
Grant me the siddhi of immortality and boundless life and wisdom!

shyepé soltab tsa gyü lama nam
The root and lineage masters, by virtue of this prayer,
chimé dütsi chugyün nampa ru
Transform into a stream of the nectar of immortality
rimgyi ö shyu nying ü tikler tim
Which gradually melts into light and dissolves into the bindu in my heart,
tsé dang yeshe ngödrub tobpar gyur
Granting me the siddhis of immortality and boundless life and wisdom.
While imagining that your three places are marked by the three syllables, recite:
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
gewa di yi dak sok semchen kün
Through the merit of this practice, may I and all beings
tsé dir tsering nemé damchö den
Enjoy a long and healthy life dedicated to the Dharma.
chima dewachen gyi shying kyé né
In the next life may we take rebirth in Sukhāvatī,
tsepakmé gön gopang nyur tob shok
And swiftly reach the state of the Protector Amitāyus.

chimé tsé yi pal la longchö ching
May the enjoyment and splendour of everlasting, deathless life,
rigpé lo dang namchö sherab dang
Keen intellect, discernment, and insight,
si dang shyiwé paljor gang lakpa
And all the riches and glories of existence and quiescence––
dé kün lhün gyi drubpar dzé du sol
May all these be spontaneously accomplished, we pray!

pönlob mindral lhenchik drok
May students never separate from teachers, may they always keep close company!
kutsé mingyur sa shying ten
May the lives of our teachers remain firm and unchanging!
ja zang shyé po gyün mi ché
May there always be good food and drink!
kyi la chö pel tashi shok
May everything be auspicious, that happiness and the Dharma flourish and abound!
Conclude with prayers of dedication, aspiration and auspiciousness, and then engage with the
day’s activities.
For the practice of approach, set up the shrine elaborately as you would for a long-life empowerment,
with the supports for the front visualization, the offerings and tormas and so forth.
Follow the format of the four sessions and recite the practice while maintaining the
invisibility of the front and self visualizations. In this way, accumulate the approach mantra
one million or four hundred thousand times. At completion, receive the siddhis as you
would in the rituals for self-initiation. In essence, relying on the self-visualization
alone will suffice for perfecting the approach phase.

The devout and faithful vidyādhara Jamyang Khyentsé Wangpo composed this practice in accordance
with the meaning of the original sādhana, in the sacred meditation cave of Pal Chuwo Ri,
blessed by the lord of mahāsiddhas himself. May whatever virtue has come from this minor
clarification be the cause for all beings to swiftly accomplish the deathless wisdom kāya.
Sarvadā kalyāṇaṃ bhavatu!

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (trans. Stefan Mang, ed. Libby Hogg), 2021. Reviewed by Han Kop.
The prayer beginning with “nangwa tayé...” courtesy of Rigpa Translations.

Source: 'jam dbyangs mkhyen brtse'i dbang po. “nye brgyud tshe rta zung 'brel gyi rgyun khyer
shin tu bsdus pa 'chi med grub pa'i zhal lung” in mkhyen brtse'i dbang po’i gsung 'bum.
25 vols. Gangtok: rdzong gsar dgon pa'i par khang, 1977–1980. W21807 Vol. 9 (ta): 179–181.

Version: 1.0-20210620